

COMPREHENSIONRead the following passages carefully and answer the questions that follow.PASSAGE IWhen Mr. Appiah looked at the two happy faces of his nephews, he forgot about his aching feet and smiled. He had spent the whole day showing Asare and Attah, who came from the village, around Accra. He was satisfied that they were happy. It was not until they were seated on a bench in the public garden that he realized how hot, tired and dusty he was.It was a long time since he had walked so much. Like many other successful men, Mr. Appiah had acquired the habit of going everywhere in his car, so that day's sight-seeing expedition had worn him out."Well, what do you think of Accra?"He asked the boys."Oh!" exclaimed Attah. "it's a wonderful place!""I didn't imagine any place could be like this, Uncle" said Asare, "Everything is so splendid. The roads are very wide and the buildings magnificent"."Boys, don't get the wrong impression. Today you've seen the best parts of our city, but there are bad areas with buildings falling apart, narrow streets and insanitary conditions. However, these buildings are being demolished", said Mr. Appiah.1.

Mr. Appiah was hot, tired and dusty because ......A.  he had gone to bring his nephews from the villageB.  he had taken his nephews to the high buildingsC.  he had shown the boys around the city of AccraD.  he had helped them to demolish the buildingsE.  he had been satisfied that the boys were happy

2.

Where were the boys living before visiting Accra?A.  In the high buildingsB.  In the villageC.  In the big housesD.  In the public gardensE.  In the building falling apart

3.

Everything is so splendid means everything is ......A.  satisfactoryB.  magnificentC.  importantD.  brilliantE.  special

4.

According to the passage many successful men are used to ......A.  walking around AccraB.  bringing their nephews from the village to AccraC.  going on sight-seeing in the city of AccraD.  talking with boys in the public gardensE.  riding in cars wherever they go

5.

Which of the following statements is not true according to the passage?A.  Every part of the city is wonderful and splendidB.  Mr. Appiah normally rides in his carC.  Asare and Attah are in Accra for the first timeD.  The boys rested in the public gardensE.  The boys as well as Mr. Appiah must have been hot, tired and dusty.

6.

Insanitary conditions in the last paragraph means ......A.  some people in Accra are insaneB.  some places in Accra are dirty and uncleanC.  insanitary is seen in all conditions in the cityD.  unsatisfactory reports about the cityE.  there are many sanitary inspectors in Accra

7.

Demolished as used in the passage meansA.  replacedB.  repairedC.  paintedD.  pulled downE.  hire out

PASSAGE IIThe Akosombo Dam and the great Volta Lake are famous over the world. The two main reasons for building the dam were, to generate electricity and to use the electricity for the production of aluminium from bauxite.Aluminium is used throughout the world; so both the production of electricity and the production of aluminium are of great value to Ghana.It may seem strange to talk about producing electricity by building a dam, but in fact a lot of dams have been built all over the world for this purpose. What happens is that a concrete wall, called a dam, is constructed across a river at a narrow point. A large lake then develops behind the wall. Tunnels are made in the dam so that water from the lake can rush fiercely through them. This powerful flow of water is used to drive huge machines called turbines, to generate electricity. All that the engineers need is the water rushing down from the lake, and all this costs them nothing! But of course the building of the dam and the fixing of the machines cost a great deal of money.Big dams have been built in many parts of the world. The Akosombo Dam is one of the biggest. However, the lake, which has been formed, is in fact the biggest man-made lake in the world.8.

The main reasons why Akosombo Dam was built were ......A.  to produce electricity to manufacture aluminiumB.  to produce electricity from aluminium and bauxiteC.  to find the mineral called bauxite and use itD.  to use aluminium and electricityE.  to make aluminium, bauxite and electricity

9.

Aluminium is produced from ......A.  damsB.  electricityC.  bauxiteD.  machineE.  tunnels

10.

From the passage, dams are built all over the world mainly to ......A.  produce aluminium from bauxiteB.  provide water for the generation of electricityC.  extract bauxite from lakesD.  provide water for drinkingE.  make electricity cheap

11.

Which of the following statements is not true according to the passage?A.  The Akosombo Dam is the biggest in the worldB.  The production of both electricity and aluminium is of great value to GhanaC.  Water from the lake runs fiercely through tunnelsD.  The Akosombo dam is valuable to GhanaE.  A great collection of water running through tunnels can produce electricity anywhere in the world

12.

According to the passage which of the following statements is true?A.  In building dams rivers are blocked at their broadcast pointsB.  Water is used to produce electricityC.  Building the dam and fixing machines to produce electricity cost nothing at allD.  In producing electricity engineers need a lot of petrol to drive the machinesE.  Turbines are used in the production of electricity

13.

The most suitable title for the passage isA.  Akosombo and BauxiteB.  Electricity from waterC.  Dams of the worldD.  Electricity and powerE.  Aluminium from electricity

SECTION BChoose from the alternatives lettered A to D the one which is nearest in meaning to the underlined word in each sentence.14.

Your dress material is inferior to what I bought from the shop. This means that your dress material is ......A.  of poor qualityB.  very beautifulC.  brightly colouredD.  expensive

15.

The girl is a spendthrift: she used all her pocket money to buy a pair of shoes. This means ......A.  carelessB.  boldC.  extravagantD.  kind

16.

The pupils in the town often help in communal activities. This means that they help in ......A.  all activitiesB.  interesting activitiesC.  public activitiesD.  usual activities

17.

The aroma of Kate's food made everyone hungry. This means the food ......A.  smells goodB.  is tastyC.  is spicyD.  is valuable

SECTION CFrom the alternatives lettered A to D, choose the one which most suitably fills the gap in each sentence.18.

He wasn't at the scene of the accident, ......?A.  wasn't heB.  isn't itC.  did heD.  was he

19.

You don't speak Chinese, ......?A.  do youB.  can youC.  don't youD.  won't you

20.

We worked hard in our final year, ......?A.  did weB.  isn't itC.  aren't weD.  didn't we

21.

They have lost the match, ......?A.  didn't theyB.  isn't itC.  haven't theyD.  is it

22.

He has stolen the box ......A.  in which we kept the gold chainB.  which we kept in the gold chainC.  we kept the gold chainD.  where we kept the gold chain

23.

...... hard he tried, Adansi came last in the test.A.  WhateverB.  HowC.  WheneverD.  However

24.

Akwetey did the exercise ......A.  even though he was sickB.  during which he was sickC.  but he was sickD.  for which he was sick

25.

We are not allowed ......A.  to walk at the lawnB.  to be walking across the lawnC.  walking across the lawnD.  to walk across the lawn

26.

Everybody was pleased ...... the pastor's sermon.A.  forB.  inC.  withD.  at

27.

John's father congratulated him ...... his success in the examination.A.  onB.  duringC.  atD.  to

28.

The patient is generally recovering ...... his illnessA.  fromB.  withC.  forD.  during

29.

We have been in this school ...... three years.A.  sinceB.  inC.  byD.  for

30.

It would be unwise to ...... the chance of making extra money.A.  throw awayB.  throw inC.  throw overD.  throw by

31.

Koku was sad when he lost his mother but he will soon ...... itA.  get alongB.  get onC.  get byD.  get over

32.

...... these words in your dictionary.A.  Look aroundB.  Look onC.  Look upD.  Look about

33.

If he ...... the elections he would have become an assemblyman.A.  wonB.  has wonC.  had wonD.  should win

34.

If he continues to work hard, he ...... his examination with ease.A.  will passB.  is passingC.  has passedD.  would pass

35.

The news he brought ...... badA.  areB.  wereC.  has beenD.  was

SECTION DFrom the list of words lettered A to D, choose the one that is most nearly opposite in meaning to the word underlined in each sentence.36.

The headmaster thanked his teachers for a wonderful job done.A.  quickB.  difficultC.  bigD.  badE.  odd

37.

The present day youth still indulge in all forms of drug abuse.A.  avoidB.  increaseC.  discourageD.  disallowE.  discontinue

38.

Some people prefer to eat lean meat.A.  uncookedB.  fattyC.  spoiltD.  bloodyE.  tasty

39.

Kojo's teacher was reluctant to accept his explanation for being late to school.A.  willingB.  afraidC.  unableD.  planningE.  likely

40.

The workers wanted their director to hold the meeting.A.  continueB.  delayC.  cancelD.  supportE.  interrupt

